acces control vulns can be used for
priv esc
admin access
various roles on the server

1.unprotected admin fucntionality
access admin directly

2. access admin funtionality with unpredicatables url
url can be found either in source code or robots or sitemap or other sources


3.parameter based access control
aither some url paramter or request parametr must have a fiels that can give us admin functionality
eg
https://insecure-website.com/login/home.jsp?admin=true
https://insecure-website.com/login/home.jsp?role=1

check them also
 A hidden field.
A cookie.
A preset query string parameter


4.look for response field it can give potential parameters and values
and if json is being used sometimes it can be used to add that paratmeter into it 
and can give us admin access


5.broken access control from platform misconfiguration
suppose post method and /admin functionality is disabled
then we can use headers such as
X-Original-URL: or X-Rewrite-URL or sometimes localhost to bypass it
if we use any headers and provide arbitrary input to it if it gives not found then we can confirm 
the headers can be used


6.http verb tampering
try to use different methods like  POST PUT OPTIONS TRACE GET to get pass


7.Broken access control resulting from URL-matching discrepancies
eg ADMIN and admin are mapped to same thing ar AdMin or AdMIN anything that can be used to get pass the access control

#NOTE in spring 5.3 admin/delete.aything will be matched to admin/delete    ----> so it can be usde to get to admin functionality as well as perform some actions


8.horizontal priv-esc using IDOR
idor can be used to access other users it can be cahnging any value in parameter or cookie


9.unpredicatalbe user id for idor
suppose if we cannot guess the unique id for the horizontal priv esc 
then we can enum web server for possible palces like ---commments author blog url etc to look for user ids


10 . sometimes our request is not successful but it still gives us useful data such as api keys or uids


11.horizontal priv esc can sometimes give us with functionality such as error messages or functionality to change ones password suck as idor
sometimes password can be disclosedd too



12. IDOR can be used to get pass access or get something useful


13.referer based access control
some pages have strong accessc ontrol on /admin pages but for its sub pages it only relies on refereer haeder
eg reffrere: /admin then we can access any sub page like /admin/dekte  /admin/users etc



14. multistep process with no access control on one step
 For example, the administrative function to update user details might involve the following steps:

    Load the form that contains details for a specific user.
    Submit the changes.
    Review the changes and confirm.

Sometimes, a website will implement rigorous access controls over some of these steps, but ignore others. 
Imagine a website where access controls are correctly applied to the first and second steps, but not to the third step. 
The website assumes that a user will only reach step 3 if they have already completed the first steps, which are properly controlled. 
An attacker can gain unauthorized access to the function by skipping the first two steps and directly submitting the request for the third step with the required parameters. 

replay attcks
